This is the most important day
in this year, 2022.
Friday, April 15, is the anniversary
of Jesus’ sacrificial death.
I’m happy to be able to address
the millions of you on this special day,
no matter where you are or what time it is
that you can now view this recording.
First, we will ask Brother Clive Martin,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
to read our text for the day.
“We will always be with the Lord.
—1 Thess. 4:17.”
Thank you, Brother Martin.
Friends, did you notice that it said “we”?
“We will always be with the Lord.”
Who does the word “we” refer to?
By extension, in a sense,
we could say it embraces
all faithful servants of Jehovah
who are gifted
everlasting life in the future.
However, specifically those words of Paul
apply to the resurrected anointed ones.
The words were written
by the apostle Paul under inspiration.
All anointed ones look forward to the time
when we receive our heavenly reward
and thereafter
“will always be with the Lord.”
Of the millions
who are viewing
this Morning Worship program,
by far the vast majority have the hope
of enjoying everlasting life
as humans here on earth.
So I thought I would address
the bulk of my comments
to those of you
who have the marvelous earthly hope.
Let’s look back to the time
of Adam’s creation.
Genesis 2:15-17
shares some details
about the arrangement, or conditions,
for Adam’s continued existence.
Please follow along
as I read it from the screen.
Genesis 2 starting with verse 15 says:
“Jehovah God took the man and settled him
“in the garden of Eden
“to cultivate it and to take care of it.
“Jehovah God also
“gave this command to the man:
“‘From every tree of the garden
“‘you may eat to satisfaction.
“‘But as for the tree of the knowledge
“‘of good and bad,
“‘you must not eat from it,
“‘for in the day you eat from it
you will certainly die.’”
So Jehovah’s original purpose
did not include death.
It would only be introduced
if perfect Adam chose
to disobey the clear command
about not eating
from the specific tree in the garden
and became imperfect.
We understand the cause, don’t we?
A spirit creature was the first to defect.
In Jehovah’s wisdom,
he has never told us the original name
of that rebellious spirit creature.
In fact, God chose not to reveal
even the descriptive name of this enemy
until some 2,500 years
after the rebellion in Eden.
In fact, only three books
of the Hebrew Scriptures
even mention the name Satan,
which means “Resister.”
We now know him as Satan the Devil.
By clever means and an outright lie,
he tempted Eve into eating from the very tree
Jehovah had placed a restriction on.
Eve got Adam
to join her in eating of the fruit.
So, what was introduced to all mankind?
Death.
Death is inevitable
in this old system.
When Jehovah first created Adam and Eve
in the garden of Eden,
there is no indication to us
that he purposed
to have some humans change life-forms
and dwell in the heavens as spirit creatures.
So the majority of you viewing this program
actually have the prospect
of enjoying the original purpose
for all mankind
—everlasting life as humans
on the Paradise earth.
That is an amazing hope in itself!
Of course, after Adam and Eve sinned,
Jehovah immediately
put into place an arrangement
to end Satan’s abusive reign.
This arrangement was outlined
in the first prophecy recorded in the Bible
at Genesis 3:15.
Please follow along on your screen
as I read that prophetic verse.
Jehovah said:
“And I will put enmity between you
“[that’s Satan]
“and the woman
“[Jehovah’s wifelike
organization of spirit creatures]
“and between your offspring
“[which includes the demon angels]
“and her offspring
“[who ultimately proved to be Jesus Christ].
“He will crush your head
“[Jesus will deal Satan a death blow],
and you will strike him in the heel.”
Satan would only be able to inflict
a minor, temporary wound
when Jesus gave up
his human life in sacrificial death
and was shortly thereafter
resurrected to heavenly life.
Adam’s death had no value.
He deserved to die for his sin.
On the other hand,
Jesus’ death had great value
because he died in a sinless state
to replace what Adam lost
for the entire human family.
Jehovah God could accept
the value of Jesus’ perfect life
as a ransom
for obedient descendants of sinful Adam.
And the value of Jesus’ sacrifice
does not stop at paying for our past sins.
Psalm 51:5 says:
“Look! I was born guilty of error,
and my mother conceived me in sin.”
So being conceived in sin,
we are bound to make more mistakes again.
However, Jesus’ sacrifice
makes provision for our future.
It will help loyal ones
to gain the perfect life
Jehovah originally intended
for the offspring of Adam and Eve.
The Watchtower  once likened Adam
to a father who died and left humans
in such deep financial debt, or sin,
that there is no possible way
to get out of debt on one’s own.
In contrast, Jesus was likened
to a good father
who died and left us all
a rich inheritance
that not only frees us
from the enormous debt of Adamic sin
but also provides enough for us
to live on eternally.
Jesus’ death is not simply
a cancellation of past sins.
It is also a wonderful provision
for the future.
Yes, according to John 3:16,
Jesus’ death is a means
of rescuing
“everyone exercising faith in him”
from sin, disease, old age,
imperfection, and death itself.
And it is that willing,
selfless death of Jesus
that we will all remember tonight
at the Memorial.
Did you notice Genesis 3:15 said
there would be “enmity”
between Satan
and Jehovah’s heavenly organization?
During that period of animosity,
Jehovah progressively revealed the details
to restore his original purpose to the earth.
Those details included
pointing his ancient servants
toward the Messiah,
who proved to be Jesus.
Jesus came to earth as a perfect man
and died to provide the opportunity
for Adam’s descendants
to gain everlasting life.
Jehovah also unveiled
another unexpected detail
in the first century.
He made clear
he would anoint 144,000 humans,
mentioned in Revelation 14,
to change life-forms
and share in the heavenly part
of his organization,
actually ruling as kings with Jesus.
All of this is what we
will commemorate this evening
as we follow the direction Jesus gave
his 11 faithful apostles
so that the glorious hope
for both the anointed
and those with earthly hopes
does not fade into insignificance.
In 2021, we had a record attendance
at the Memorial,
even though it was by means
of videoconferencing.
We all still have time today to send a text
or make a phone call to interested ones
whom we have invited.
Remind them of this special occasion,
and make sure they know
how to go about attending
this special meeting locally.
Now we will ask Brother Martin
to read the Watchtower  comments for us.
“Anointed ones who today
finish their earthly course
“are instantly raised to life in the heavens.
“This is confirmed
by the apostle Paul’s words
“recorded at 1 Corinthians 15:51, 52.
“Upon their resurrection,
“these brothers of Christ
will have complete joy.
“The Bible tells us what work
“those who are changed
‘in the blink of an eye’ will do in heaven.
“Jesus says to them:
“‘To the one who conquers
and observes my deeds down to the end,
“‘I will give authority over the nations,
“‘and he will shepherd the people
with an iron rod
“‘so that they will be broken
to pieces like clay vessels,
just as I have received from my Father.’”
Thank you, Brother Martin.
For the last four days,
our Bible reading
has covered the Bible accounts
leading up to Jesus’ sacrificial death.
We invite you to follow along
with the reading for today.
The specific verses
will appear on-screen in your language.
Please give contemplative attention
to what is described.
“On the first day of the Unleavened Bread,
“the disciples came to Jesus, saying:
“‘Where do you want us to prepare
for you to eat the Passover?’
“He said: ‘Go into the city to So-and-so
“‘and say to him, “The Teacher says:
“‘“‘My appointed time is near;
“‘“‘I will celebrate the Passover
with my disciples at your home.’”’
“So the disciples did
as Jesus instructed them
and prepared for the Passover.”
“Now on the first day
of the Unleavened Bread,
“when they customarily
offered up the Passover sacrifice,
“his disciples said to him:
“‘Where do you want us to go
and prepare for you to eat the Passover?’
“With that he sent two
of his disciples and said to them:
“‘Go into the city,
“‘and a man carrying
an earthenware water jar will meet you.
“‘Follow him, and wherever he goes inside,
“‘say to the master of the house,
“‘“The Teacher says: ‘Where is the guest room
“‘“where I may eat
the Passover with my disciples?’
“‘And he will show you
a large upper room, furnished and ready.
“Prepare it for us there.’
“So the disciples went out,
“and they entered the city
and found it just as he said to them,
“and they prepared for the Passover.
“The day
of the Unleavened Bread now arrived,
“on which
the Passover sacrifice must be offered;
“so Jesus sent Peter and John, saying:
“‘Go and get
the Passover ready for us to eat.’
“They said to him:
‘Where do you want us to get it ready?’
“He said to them: ‘Look!
When you enter into the city,
“‘a man carrying
an earthenware water jar will meet you.
“‘Follow him into the house that he enters.
“‘And say to the landlord of the house,
“‘“The Teacher says to you:
‘Where is the guest room
“‘where I may eat the Passover
with my disciples?’”
“‘And that man will show you a large,
furnished upper room.
“Get it ready there.’
“So they left and found it
just as he had told them,
and they prepared for the Passover.”
“Now because he knew
before the festival of the Passover
“that his hour had come for him
to leave this world and go to the Father,
“Jesus, having loved his own
who were in the world,
“loved them to the end.
“The evening meal was going on,
“and the Devil had already put it
into the heart of Judas Iscariot,
“the son of Simon, to betray him.
“So Jesus, knowing that the Father
“had given all things into his hands
“and that he came from God
and was going to God,
“got up from the evening meal
and laid aside his outer garments.
“And taking a towel,
he wrapped it around his waist.
“After that he put water into a basin
“and started
to wash the feet of the disciples
and to dry them off with the towel
that was wrapped around him.”
“Do not let your hearts be troubled.
“Exercise faith in God;
“exercise faith also in me.
“In the house of my Father
are many dwelling places.
“Otherwise, I would have told you,
“for I am going my way
to prepare a place for you.
“Also, if I go my way
and prepare a place for you,
“I will come again
and will receive you home to myself,
so that where I am you also may be.”
Those were significant passages
leading up to the greatest act of love
of all time.
Jehovah and Jesus cooperated together
to undo the horrible results
that came from the actions
of Satan, Adam, and Eve.
Whether of the anointed or the other sheep,
we look forward to the future
when we will always acknowledge the role
that both Jehovah and Jesus played
in rescuing us from sin and death.
We pray that all of you
will enjoy your evening
during the Memorial of Jesus’ death.